                              There are 4 common level of data measurement

1. Nominal : Numbers representing nominal data can be used to classify or categorize. 
Eg : Employee Identification Numbers. These numbers are only used to differentiate one employees from the other and not to make a value statement about them.
 
 Other example of Nominal data are as follows:
 Sex
 Religion
 Location
 
 Thus the main aim of nominal data is classifying the data 
 Nominal data does not rank the data. For ranking we have Ordinal data
 

 2. Ordinal data : Can be used to order or rank objects + Nominal data characteristics(used to classify)
 Example: A supervisor can rank the productivity of employers using ordinal data. However the supervisor cannot establish the interval between the employees ranked 1 and 2 is equal to the interval between the employee ranked 2 and 3. 
 
 With ordinal data the distance represented by consecutive number may or may not be equal. To address this we have interval data 
 

 3. Interval data : The distance between consecutive numbers have meaning(equal) and the data is always numerical
 Example: With Fahrenheit temperature numbers,the temperatures can be ranked and the amount of heat between consecutive readings are the same
 
 
4. Ratio data : Here the ratio of two numbers is meaningful. Ratio data also has an absolute zero + Interval data characteristics
 
 Example: With ratio data we can state that 180 pounds of data is twice as much as 90 pounds of data i.e they make a ratio of 180:90
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
 
Descriptive Statistics: Here we gather data from every element in the population and draw conclusions about the population
Using Descriptive Statistics in the industry
 
 1) Total number of worker hours helps understand labour cost,work allocation and productivity
 2) Sales Volume help us determine the number of products sold,the profits, advertisements required etc
 3) Amount of raw material purchased helps us understand the inventory requirement,waste etc



Inferential Statistics: Generated from the process of gathering sample data from a population and reaching to conclusions about the larger group from which the sample was drawn
Using Inferential Statistics in the industry
 
 1) Take a sample of your products and test them for quality,life span and vrious other features. Use these samples to draw a conclusion about all the products in the population
 2) Consider a few consumers of your product and determine how many products they purcahsed. Use this to estimate market potential and penetration for the entire population
 3) Interview a random sample of employees from your company. Use these to enhance productivity and the working enviornment for the entire population.
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 